# Component Specification

## Software components

### Tree List Pre-processors
* **What it does:** Transforms plot data which from different formats into a consistent format.
* **Input:** Tree data from external sources are currently in two formats: text files, and a shapefile.
* **Output:** A text file (CSV or TXT) for each plot containing consistently formatted tree measurements from that plot.

### Tree List Format Checker
* **What it does:** Checks to see whether a user-provided tree list conforms with format being used for 3D modeling.
* **Input:** A text file containing information about a single tree on each line.
* **Output:** True/False indication of whether user-specified treelist conforms to our format requirements.

### Point Cloud Mesher
* **What it does:** Reads a lidar point cloud, defines geographic coordinate system, generates a Poisson surface mesh.
* **Input:** Path to a lidar point cloud in LAS or LAZ format.
* **Output:** A Poisson surface mesh saved to hard drive in PLY format.

### 3D Tree Modeler
* **What it does:** Generates a 3D point cloud depicting the trunk and crown of a tree. Has options to generate exterior crown points alone (e.g., a hull) or a grid of points that fall inside the crown.
* **Input:** Parameters describing the location, size, and shape of the tree.
* **Output:** A numpy array containing 3D points representing the tree.

### Trees Assembler
* **What it does:** Assemble single tree models together to a larger model based on their plot locations.
* **Input:** Several Tree Models, the plot locations of the trunk of each tree.
* **Output:** An assembled trees model which is a numpy matrix containing 3D points representing trees and their plot locations.

### Tree Visualizer
* **What it does:** Produces an interactive visualization of a tree in 3D. Allows the user to modify parameters using widgets.
* **Input:** A 3D Tree Model.
* **Output:** A Plotly Graph Object that can be updated with widgets.

### Assembled Visualizer
* **What it does:** Produces an interactive visualization of several tree and their plot locations in 3D. Allows users to zoom in/out and shift the angle to see the model. User should have access in every tree model in which can modify parameters using widgets. 
* **Input:** Assembled Tree model.
* **Output:** A Plotly Graph Object that can be show in different angle and size. And user can access to every tree model by double click on the chosen tree.

### Point Cloud calculator
* **What it does:** Calculate the distance between the 3D point cloud to the Lidar-derived mesh.  
* **Input:** An Assembled 3D Tree Model and a PLY format file in which is the corresponding Poisson surface mesh.
* **Output:** A matrix containing the 3D points and the calculated distances.

### Optimization Routine
* **What it does:** Interpolate simulated points to the lidar-derived mesh based on the distance. Using optimization algorithm to minimizes the distance iteratively.
* **Input:** The PLY files containing the lidar-derived mesh and the calculated distances.
* **Output:** A number of PLY files contains the mesh and the result of interpolation after optimizations.

### Dynamic Visualizer
* **What it does:** Read a number of PLY files and produce an interactive visualization of the lidar-derived mesh and the simulated points. Allows the user to view the lidar-derived mesh and the simulated points in a time sequence.
* **Input:** A number of PLY files generated by optimization containing the mesh and the simulated points.
* **Output:** A Plotly Graph Object which can show the changing of simulated points during the optimization.

## Interactions to accomplish use cases.

1. By using Tree List Pre-processor to transform data into the same format and using the Tree List Format Checker to check and raise an exception when minimum requirements for data are not satisfied, the software are able to preprocessing the data with reminding of failure and abnormal status.
2. To accomplish the task of "Drawing trees", Trees Assembler assembles the single tree models created by 3D Tree Modeler and using Assembled Visuailzer to generate a graph object which take the plotly graph object created by Tree Visulizer as an significant graphic component.

## Preliminary plan.
1. Scripts/functions for pre-processing field-measured forest inventory data into consistent format
2. Classes/functions for generating a 3D point cloud for a single tree from field-measured attributes
3. Classes/functions for combining multiple trees into a single point cloud
4. Functions for plotting 3D point clouds
5. Process for generating a Poisson Surface mesh from lidar data
6. Process for calculating the distance of points on a regular 3D grid from the lidar-derived mesh
7. Function for querying this distance array with a set of simulated points, based on interpolation of query points using the regular 3D grid with pre-calculated distances from the lidar mesh.
8. Implementation of an optimization algorithm which adjusts tree simulation parameters, calculates the distance of the simulated points from the lidar-derived mesh, and iteratively minimizes this distance function.
